now to Gaza and some important figures
that have emerged the number of
Palestinians killed by the Israeli
offensive in Gaza has passed 40,000 amid
renewed efforts to broke a ceasefire
these figures according to the health
Ministry in the hamus Run territory
which does not importantly distinguish
between civilians and combatants The War
Began after Hamas fighter stormed into
Southern Israel on October the 7th of
last year killing about 1,200 people and
seizing
251 Israel says more than 300 of its
soldiers have died in the fighting since
um so those figures a very important U
Milestone past their 40,000 is uh what
the Hamas run um Ministry is now
reporting Barbara plasha reports and a
warning that viewers may find some
details in this report
unsettling it took early two months to
to dig his family out of the wreckage of
their home he was the only one who
survived the
strike can I could see my father under
the rubble but I couldn't extract him at
first because he was under two columns
of cement and the ceiling would have
collapsed he decomposed in front of my
eyes my mother's body was inside the
house but when I tried to go to see her
I felt smothered and had to
leave he's looked after Now by his
grandfather in a shelter for Orphan and
widows carrying on with the task of
living his mother father brother and two
sisters are among the 40,000 reported
killed in the Gaza
War the number is
overwhelming each loss is a raw and
individual
grief experienced again and again in
places that are supposed to be
safe Israel says it hits civilian INF
structure because Hamas is operating
there Hamas says it isn't the
International Community condemns
civilian
deaths and the killing goes
on more than 10 months of War have
turned Gaza into a destruction Zone
displaced most of its people many are
sick and
hungry in the southern city of hunis
they've been forced to flee a
continually shifting front
line we are tired of this life she says
death is better than
this death is a constant presence Samy
kawar still has his family and whatever
else he could carry with him but this
graveyard was the only space he could
find in a shrinking humanitarian
Zone we have fled from dying to be among
the dead meaning we are the Living Dead
the truth is no one really knows what to
say
back at the shelter the orphans have
been given another chance at
life how much of a chance though without
at least a ceasefire the future looks as
dangerous as the present Barbara PL user
BBC News
Jerusalem well let's now to speak to
Jenny Hill who is in Tel Aviv Jenny uh
these figures striking indeed and no
doubt as added impetus as if it were
needed to attempts to strike a peace
deal
yeah you're quite right this will lend a
new urgency um to the negotiators who
are gathering in Doha trying to hammer
out that ceasefire and hostage return
deal um 40,000 plus deaths now reported
by the gazen Run Ministry of Health um
it's worth of course emphasizing that
Israel does not allow International
journalists including the BBC into Gaza
so we can't independently verif y that
figure but um the the numbers given out
by the Ministry of Health um are
considered credible by the World Health
Organization although Israel has
repeatedly disputed them um Hamas um and
the Ministry of Health have always said
that the vast majority of those killed
and injured in this war are civilians
Israel told the BBC quite recently that
around 15,000 of the people killed are
in its view terrorist that's the word
that it uses but you know once again
it's a reminder of the ongoing suffering
of people in Gaza we learned recently
that some 60% of the buildings in the
strip have been um significantly damaged
or destroyed um so a reminder to the
negotiators who are in Doha that this is
all about human
lives Jenny what are the prospects now
um for some sort of deal given the
backdrop that we are seeing
and uh the risks associated with not
striking a peace
deal well those negotiators know that
the stakes quite simply couldn't be
higher quite apart from trying to bring
about an end to that war in Gaza most
here consider that a ceasefire and
hostage return agreement will stop that
conflict from boiling over into a much
wider Regional allout War as you know
these talks are coming at a time of
extremely high tension in the Middle
East the US has been really pushing to
get this deal across the line um the
director of the CIA is expected to
participate in the talks there's been a
lot of urgent diplomacy gone on in
recent days Israel itself has sent a
high level delegation to the talks um
among the people represented are the
Chiefs of both the intelligence and
Security Services now Hamas says it
won't participate either Direct or
indirectly to date it hasn't ever sent
people to participate directly the
current stance is based on its protest
that as it says Benjamin Netanyahu has
introduced new conditions uh in addition
to existing proposals they say that's
not on um he denies that but um Hamas
will be kept informed we understand by
mediators mediations of course led by um
Qatar and Egypt so those talks are
expected to go on it's hard really to
say what outcome we're likely to see one
of the unknowables here is the impact on
those neg negotiations of a change of
leadership at the top of Hamas following
the assassination of the group's
political leader isma hania in Teran a
couple of weeks ago um we've seen a
successor appointed in the shape of uh
Yaya sinoa um he's believed to still be
in hiding in Gaza he's also widely
considered to be a much more Hardline
character than his predecessor